<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="../../style.css" title="sans" media="screen" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<link href="../../feed.atom" title="Atom (full content)" type="application/atom+xml" rel="alternate"/>
<title>cl-blog-generator : Blog Generator Design</title><link rel="next" href="/cl-blog-generator/content/site/post/2009/blog_generator_configuration.xhtml" title="Blog Generator Configuration"/><meta name="description" content="I want to be able publish posts easily to a statically served site.  I am sure that there are lots of blog site generators out there, but I could not find one that I liked, and which was in a language I would enjoy hacking, and so I wrote my own."/><meta name="keywords" content="generator,blog,lisp"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="container">
<div id="banner"><h1><span id="post-title">Blog Generator Design</span></h1></div>
<div id="centercontent">
<div id="post">
<p>I want to be able publish posts easily to a statically served site.  I am sure that there are lots of blog site generators out there, but I could not find one that I liked, and which was in a language I would enjoy hacking, and so I wrote my own.</p>

<p>The blog site is generated from file based posts, using an augmented version of xhtml as the input format. The input format has a DTD, as well as a Relax NG compressed schema generated using <a href="http://www.thaiopensource.com/relaxng/trang.html">Trang</a> which is used in the provided schemas.xml file to allow validation in Emacs <a href="http://www.thaiopensource.com/nxml-mode/">nXML mode</a>.</p>

<p>When ready, the drafts are merged into a post template, in standard xhtml, to produce a site that can be rsync'd to a web host.  The merging of the templates is done using <a href="http://www.sbcl.org/">SBCL</a> and <a href="http://common-lisp.net/project/cxml/">CXML</a>.  The generator maintains a database of posts, so that it can generate the index page, etc, and uses <a href="http://common-lisp.net/project/elephant/">Elephant</a>.  The whole site can be re-generated from the input post files, so a revision control system, such as git, can be used to manage the posts, and we don't have to worry about backing up the the database too frequently.</p>

<p>An Emacs minor-mode can be used to trigger the publishing and site generation.</p>

<p>The generator is intended to produce a personol blog, with one user.  I am however misusing it here to provide a sort of update blog for the software itself.</p>
</div>
</div>

<div id="rightcontent">
<div class="oo"><a href="../../index.xhtml" id="to-home"><span id="home">home</span></a></div>
 <a href="" rel="me">source</a>
 <a href="http://hugoduncan.org" rel="me">Hugo Duncan</a>
<div class="vcard">
  <a href="http://hugoduncan.org/" class="fn url">Hugo Duncan</a>
  <div><a href="mailto:blogen@hugoduncan.org" class="email">
       <span class="type">pref</span><span>erred email</span>
  </a></div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>